ISPN-13746 Server hinting (#10040)
infinispan/infinispan: documentation/src/main/asciidoc/topics/con_server_hinting.adoc

[id='server-hinting_{context}']
= Server hinting

Server hinting increases availability of data in distributed caches by replicating entries across as many servers, racks, and data centers as possible.

NOTE: Server hinting applies only to distributed caches.

When {brandname} distributes the copies of your data, it follows the order of precedence: site, rack, machine, and node.
All of the configuration attributes are optional.
For example, when you specify only the rack IDs, then {brandname} distributes the copies across different racks and nodes.

Server hinting can impact cluster rebalancing operations by moving more segments than necessary if the number of segments for the cache is too low.

TIP: An alternative for clusters in multiple data centers is cross-site replication.

[discrete]

> == Server hinting configuration example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Server hinting configuration
```

[id='server-hinting_{context}']
= Server hinting

Server hinting increases availability of data in distributed caches by replicating entries across as many servers, racks, and data centers as possible.

> NOTE: Server hinting applies only to distributed caches because it distributes data across the physical topology of your {brandname} cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Server hinting applies only to distributed caches.
```

Reviewer: I think maybe keep this one short and sweet.

Server hinting is useful when you deploy {brandname} in one or more data centers that have multiple server racks that contain multiple machines.
If all nodes in the cluster run on the same machine then {brandname} creates copies of cache entries in the same physical location.
Server hinting ensures that {brandname} stores replicas in different locations.

> An alternative for clusters in multiple data centers is cross-site replication.

Reviewer 2: I think less is more and the sentence in line 4 goes directly to the point and says everything a user needs to know. Sentences in lines 8-11 do not add any important information IMO (well, probably using cross-site as an alternative may be relevant).

Also, IMO there are 2 points missing that may matter:
* Infinispan distributes the data copies hierarchy -> first by site, then by rack, then by machines, and finally by nodes.
* A user does not need to configure all the attributes (note: `node` is always set). if a user only configures `rack`, Infinispan balances the data between racks and then between nodes.

Reviewer 3: +1

> {brandname} uses the `TopologyAwareSyncConsistentHashFactory` consistent hashing algorithm to distribute data across nodes when you configure server hinting.

Reviewer 2: IMO, this sentence can be removed. This is an implementation detail and users do not need to know about it.

TIP: An alternative for clusters in multiple data centers is cross-site replication.

[discrete]
== Server hinting configuration

> To configure server hinting for a distributed cache, you provide information about the physical topology as part of the transport configuration for the Cache Manager:

Reviewer: I'd probably just drop this sentence. The "To configure.." construction should lead into a procedure and signal to users that they are about to perform a task.

I also think it's obvs from the configuration examples that the info about the physical topology is included in the transport config. IMO there's no need to explicitly state that.

[id='server-hinting_{context}']
= Server hinting

Server hinting increases availability of data in distributed caches by replicating entries across as many servers, racks, and data centers as possible.

NOTE: Server hinting applies only to distributed caches because it distributes data across the physical topology of your {brandname} cluster.

> Server hinting requires a site to have multiple racks, a rack has multiple machines, and a machine has multiple {brandname} nodes.

Reviewer: I think we can refine this section a little. Something like:

"Server hinting is useful when you deploy {brandname} in one or more data centers that have multiple server racks that contain multiple machines.
If all nodes in the cluster run on the same machine then {brandname} creates copies of cache entries in the same physical location.
Server hinting ensures that {brandname} stores replicas in different locations."

When all the nodes are on the same machine, {brandname} creates copies of entries in the same location.
Without server hinting configured, {brandname} might store copies in the same location as the original data.

> {brandname} uses `TopologyAwareSyncConsistentHashFactory` consistent hashing algorithm to distribute data across nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{brandname} uses the `TopologyAwareSyncConsistentHashFactory` consistent hashing algorithm to distribute data across nodes when you configure server hinting.
```

Server hinting can impact cluster rebalancing operations by moving more segments than necessary if the number of segments for the cache is too low.

> Increasing the number of segments requires available compute resources.

Reviewer: This sentence doesn't sound like it's related to server hinting to me.

Note that cross site replication is another alternative for

> clusters that need to span two or more data centers.

Reviewer: Maybe combine this with the previous paragraph about "one or more data centers". It feels like this is kind of dangling in here.

[id='server-hinting_{context}']
= Server hinting

Server hinting helps you to achieve high availability of your data in case of hardware and network failure.
When you configure server hinting, {brandname} distributes your data across the cluster and stores backup copies of your data on as many servers, racks, and data centers as possible.

NOTE: When you use replicated caches, {brandname} keeps a complete copy of all entries on each node. Server hinting distributes data across the topology so that backup copies of data are stored on different nodes in the topology than the primary owners.

{brandname} uses consistent hashing mechanism to distribute data across nodes.
The algorithm can potentially move a greater number of segments than necessary during cluster rebalancing.
You can mitigate this by configuring a larger number of segments.

> However, using a large number of segments can lead to uneven distribution of segments.

Reviewer: Think we can condense this with the previous sentence. In the first sentence you're basically describing how Infinispan distributes data, which is a piece of concept info that belongs outside this topic.

The algorithm is too vague. Should always use `{brandname}` in places like this where you're describing how the logic of the code works.

Also the relationship to the previous sentence is that when you configure server hinting Infinispan uses only the TopologyAwareSyncConsistentHashFactory consistent hashing algorithm. So you could probably say something like that to be more direct and clear.

> The algorithm can potentially move a greater number of segments than necessary during cluster rebalancing.
> You can mitigate this by configuring a larger number of segments.
> However, using a large number of segments can lead to uneven distribution of segments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Server hinting can impact cluster rebalancing operations by moving more segments than necessary if the number of segments for the cache is too low.
Increasing the number of segments too much can lead to uneven distribution.
```

Reviewer 2: I don't think `Increasing the number of segments too much can lead to uneven distribution` is true. I don't think there is any real side effect of having a large number of segments except for resources consumption.

Author: Thanks @pruivo 
What about?
```suggestion
Server hinting can impact cluster rebalancing operations by moving more segments than necessary if the number of segments for the cache is too low.
Increasing the number of segments requires available compute resources.
```
And is there any downside to server hinting that we should mention? Something we're missing in here. Thanks

Reviewer 2: looks good to me.

> And is there any downside to server hinting that we should mention? Something we're missing in here. Thanks

Nothing worth mention IMO. It may take more time to compute the mapping between segment -> nodes than the default, but you won't notice in modern machines :)

Server hinting is suitable for deployments with nodes spread at least on two machines.

> When all the nodes are on the same machine, {brandname} allocates copies of entries in the same location.

Reviewer: s/creates/allocates

> Without server hinting configured, {brandname} might store copies in the same location as the original data.

Reviewer: It seems like this info should come before the performance thing about the number of segments.

[discrete]
== Server hinting attributes

> Server hinting assumes a site has multiple racks, a rack has multiple machines, and a machine has multiple {brandname} nodes.

Reviewer: Don't use "assumes" like this. It implies uncertainty. Use "requires" instead.

> For {brandname} to distribute data across nodes, you need to provide information about the physical topology using the following attributes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure server hinting for a distributed cache, you provide information about the physical topology as part of the transport configuration for the Cache Manager:
```

  hardware or network failure at the same time.
Site::
  Some clusters may have nodes in multiple physical locations for extra resilience.
  Note that cross site replication is another alternative for

>   clusters that need to span two or more data centers.

Reviewer: This is reference information that we want to move to the XSD. 

Move all the attribute descriptions here: https://github.com/infinispan/infinispan/blob/492d240fd5fe3a1f672e14e0206aa95fd63778e9/core/src/main/resources/schema/infinispan-config-14.0.xsd#L459

We should then reference the schema as part of the `Additional resources` section.

[discrete]
== Server hinting configuration
Configure server hinting using the `clusterName`, `machineId`, `rackId`, and `siteId` attributes.
All of the attributes are optional.

> When provided, the distribution algorithm spreads the ownership of each segment across as many sites, racks, and machines (in this order) as possible.

Reviewer: Drop all three sentences for minimalism. This is already explained above.
